there's never enough food for a shrew
and rivals fight over hunting rights
with extraordinary ferocity
[Music]
this little has now staked his claim to
the food in this part of the woodland
[Music]
when he meets a female he's almost as
aggressive towards her as he is toward
surviving male after testing one
another's strength the female accepts
the male not just as a contestant but as
a mate two weeks later the young are
born their mother has nourished them
inside her womb
so they arrive comparatively well
developed caring for the young is a
crucial part of the mammals winning
design something few reptiles do a
mother shrew will even quench her baby's
thirst with her own saliva if necessary
most important of all she provides them
with that uniquely mammalian food milk
this milk is so rich that it takes a
mere two weeks to the young to approach
their mother in size by this time
they're quite a handful and need to be
weaned from the nipple despite their
protests
but their mother doesn't abandon them
she herself leaves them into the world
outside
[Music]
insurance
[Applause]
[Music]
you